In the next few videos we’re going to be
going a little more in depth exploring what
interfaces are and how we can use them.
I mentioned at the beginning that interfaces
are a feature of Typescript as opposed to
Angular 2.
So what you’ll see is a lot of the source
code in Angular 2 is written as a typescript
interface.
If we navigate over to the angular docs, then
click on this API reference.
We’re presented with some icons here to
sort by.
One of these options is Interface.
Clicking on this icon brings us a list of
all the API methods written as an interface.
One of these is called PipeTransform and its
one that we’ve already used.
Do you remember how we used PipeTransform?
We imported the file from angular core.
Then we implemented it within our class.
We used the keyword implement as a way to
access properties and methods within this
PipeTransform.
Lets now practice building and using interfaces
by creating a Book interface inside of our
booklist component.
Opening up my books-list component file, I’m
going to create an interface for our books
below.
I’m going to define my Book interface directly
in this file just for demonstration purposes.
When adding an interface in this way we need
to add it above our component decorator.
I’ll first use my interface keyword and
then the name of my new interface which is
IBook followed by curly braces.
Now lets define our properties.
I’m going to just copy over the properties
we’ve already defined in our array of books.
Then change around the values to their respective
type
remembering to change the comma here to a
semicolon.
And now I can change this books which is currently
defined as type any to the type of my interface
which is IBook.
Everything works the same, except that we’re
using strong typing to define our books array.
As a result, if I were to change my reviews
value to a string I’ll get a squiggly line
error.
Also, if I were to add an additional property
that’s not already set in our interface
– such as the property hardcover and set
it to false – I’ll get a squiggly line
error just on that line.
There may be times when we don’t know whether
or not a we’re going to be getting back
a piece of data.
In these cases, we can use the question mark
symbol after our property key.
So to demonstrate, we’ll add a hardcover
property followed by a question mark that’s
of type boolean.
Now, it doesn’t matter whether or not we
declare our hardcover property within our
books array.
We can delete the property definition and
we won’t be getting any errors.
Now that we’ve seen how to use interfaces
as a source for strong typing, lets see a
more real world example where we export our
interface.